In this exercise, you're given a wrist worn
accelerometer signal of someone who's running,
and we want you to figure out how far the where I ran.
From the previous lessons,
you should have enough knowledge about signal processing and
accelerometers to do this with the pieces of information below.
One, the step braid is the largest frequency component in the accelerometer signal.
Two, that we assume the where's average step length is 55 inches.
All right. Let's see how we do this.
The first thing we do is plot the spectrogram of our accelerometer signal.
We're using a 10-second window and no overlap.
The first thing we notice is that there are these bands of power.
I've told you that the biggest one is
the step rates and the other ones are the harmonics that we learned about.
Because you've read the documentation for spec gram,
you know that it returns the spectrogram itself,
as well as the frequencies.
We look at the shape of this,
we can see that there is one column per window,
and each column is the Fourier transform of that window.
Then freqs is just the frequency values that we're computing coefficients for.
We can get the step rate by looking at the largest frequency component in each window.
If we do that, we see that the step rate hangs out around two hertz,1.9 hertz.
Because we're assuming that the step length is 55 inches,
we can get the average inches per second for
each window by multiplying the step rate and the step length.
Next, we can get the total inches per window by
multiplying our speed with the window size, which is 10 seconds.
Then we get the total inches walked by averaging all the inches walked in each window.
We can divide this by the number of inches in a mile,
and we can compute the total distance in miles.
So it looks like this person walked around half a mile.
We can even look at their speed by
figuring out how long our accelerometer trace is in minutes,
and then dividing that by the total distance.
It looks like our average speed is around 10 minutes per mile.
So we just learned a lot of context here that can help us perform
higher-level tasks later on just by using the accelerometer alone,
and with the help of our signal processing toolbox